# About
[Amdahl-Gen](https://github.com/yosefgoren/amdahl-gen.git) is a framework for creating datasets which associate C/C++ source codes with their runtime performance.
Initially, it's aimed at collecting and aggregating the data required to estimate parallelizability of codes.



# Dependencies
* A working C/C++ SDK such as `gcc` or `clang`.
* The [`perf`](https://perf.wiki.kernel.org/index.php/Tutorial) analysis tool.
* `python3`, with the [`lark`](https://lark-parser.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) library



# Collection Framework
This framework for collecting results has 3 types of components: Configurations, Collectors, Results.


## Configurations
A configuration describes exactly what we want to collect, including all input parameters.
These configurations are provided in the form of `json` files, and more specifically - `json`
files that follow a schema which is specific to the available collection types.

For example, a configuration file for a collection of type 'alpha' will be a `json` file that follows the [alpha config schema](schemas/alpha.config.schema.json).


## Collectors
A collector is a program that receives a configuration of a certain type, and collects (generates, if required) appropriate results
that satisfy the requirements of the configuration.


## Results
Results are products of the framework, and can either be intermidiate - meaning they are used by some collectors, or they can be terminal - meaning they are only used outside the context of this framework. In either case, these results are `json` files generated by collectors and follow some result scheme.

For example, the result file of a collection of type 'alpha' will be a `json` file that follows the [alpha result schema](schemas/alpha.result.schema.json).



# Collection Types
Currently supported collection types:
* Srclines
* Symbols
* Significant
    - SrclinesSig
    - SymbolsSig
* Alpha
    - SrclinesAlpha
    - SymbolsAlpha